QtQuick.qtquick-codesamples
===========================

.. raw:: html

   <p>

This page lists the Qt QML and Qt Quick examples, however, many other Qt
modules contain examples related to their QML API.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <h2 id="running-the-examples-and-demos">

Running the Examples and Demos

.. raw:: html

   </h2>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

The examples are packaged with the Qt installers and are accessed
through Qt Creator. For more information about running examples in Qt
Creator, visit the Building and Running an Example page.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Open and run examples within Qt Creator's Welcome mode. Most of the
examples run on various platforms and to search for platform-specific
examples, type the platform name (or any keywords) in the search field.
For example, typing mobile in the search field lists the examples that
are fully compatible with the mobile platforms.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

To view other examples and tutorials, visit the Qt Examples And
Tutorials page.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <h2 id="qt-quick-demos">

Qt Quick Demos

.. raw:: html

   </h2>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Here is a list of fully-functional demo applications. They are full
applications that show how a deployable Qt application is built and
structured. Many of the demos are deployable to mobile and desktop
platforms.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <table class="annotated">

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="odd topAlign">

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblName">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Qt Quick Demo - Calqlatr

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblDescr">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

A QML app designed for portrait devices that uses custom components,
animated with AnimationController, and JavaScript for the application
logic.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="even topAlign">

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblName">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Qt Quick Demo - Clocks

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblDescr">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

A QML clock application that demonstrates using a ListView type to
display data generated by a ListModel and a SpringAnimation type to
animate images.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="odd topAlign">

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblName">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Qt Quick Demo - Maroon in Trouble

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblDescr">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

A Qt Quick game for touch devices that uses SpriteSequence,
ParticleSystem, Emitter, and Wander types to animate objects and the
SoundEffect type to play sound effects.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="even topAlign">

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblName">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Qt Quick Demo - Photo Surface

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblDescr">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

A QML app for touch devices that uses a Repeater with a FolderListModel
to access content in a folder, and a PinchArea that contains a MouseArea
to handle pinch gestures on the fetched content.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="odd topAlign">

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblName">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Qt Quick Demo - Photo Viewer

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblDescr">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

A QML photo viewer that that uses XmlListModel and XmlRole to download
Flickr feeds, and Package to display the photos in different views.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="even topAlign">

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblName">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Qt Quick Demo - RSS News

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblDescr">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

A QML RSS news reader that uses XmlListModel and XmlRole to download XML
data, ListModel and ListElement to create a category list, and ListView
to display the data.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="odd topAlign">

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblName">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Qt Quick Demo - Same Game

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblDescr">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

A QML implementation of the popular puzzle game by Kuniaki Moribe.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="even topAlign">

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblName">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Qt Quick Demo - StocQt

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblDescr">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

A configurable stock chart for the NASDAQ-100.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr class="odd topAlign">

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblName">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Qt Quick Demo - Tweet Search

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td class="tblDescr">

.. raw:: html

   <p>

A Twitter search client with 3D effects.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   </table>

.. raw:: html

   <h2 id="developing-qt-quick-applications">

Developing Qt Quick Applications

.. raw:: html

   </h2>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

The following pages show how to develop Qt applications using Qt Creator
and Qt Quick. The pages demonstrate various steps such as use cases and
introductory material. For more information about Qt Quick Applications
and related modules, visit the QML Applications page.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Development Environment

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Creating Qt Quick Projects

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Using Qt Quick Designer

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Creating Components

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Creating Screens

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Exporting Designs from Graphics Software

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Using QML Modules with Plugins

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Beginning with QML and Qt Quick

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

First Steps with QML

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Qt Quick Text Editor

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

SameGame

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Use Cases

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Visual types in QML

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Responding to User Input in QML

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Animations in QML

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Displaying Text in QML

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Layouts in QML

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Style and Theme Support

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Integrating JavaScript in QML

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   <h3>

Extending QML

.. raw:: html

   </h3>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

The following tutorials show how a QML-based application can be combined
with C++ code using the Qt QML module. For information about extending
QML, visit the Integrating QML and C++ page.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <h2 id="examples">

Examples

.. raw:: html

   </h2>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Examples are small applications which show how to implement various Qt
Quick features. The examples run on various platforms and are opened
from within Qt Creator.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

QML Types and Controls

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Controls Gallery

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Dialog Examples

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Calendar Example

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

TableView

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Text and Fonts

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Custom Toggle Switch

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Layouts and Views

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Basic Layouts

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Positioners

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Views

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Windows and Screen

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Right-to-Left and Text Layout

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Image and Graphics

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Image Elements

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Animation

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Canvas API

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Shader Effects

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Keyboard, Focus, and Touch

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Key Interaction

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

MouseArea

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Touch Gallery

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

System and Events

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Threading

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Accessibility

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

External Drag and Drop

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Drag and Drop

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Scene Graph

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

OpenGL Under QML

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Painted Item

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Custom Geometry

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Graph

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Simple Material

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Rendering FBOs

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Rendering FBOs in a thread

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   <!-- @@@qtquick-codesamples.html -->
